

Joshua
Everly

CSCI 444 Internship

Bi-Weekly Log

 

 

            At the time I am writing this I have now officially
finished my first two weeks as a software intern at IWCO Direct. During those
two weeks I have been learning about and working with IWCO Direct’s custom
built service bus. During my time I have been tasked with gaining an
understanding of the inner workings of the service bus and then translating
that understanding into a document that outlines the code design so that new
software engineer hires can read it and figure out what they’re working with quickly
so that the training period can be reduced. Being able to read and understand
the code for me was very beneficial because I was able to get a grasp on what code
looks like in the industry and how I should strive to make my code better. Before
I started the internship I was really worried that I wouldn’t know anything (because
I have never worked with C# before) but actually most of the code that I work
with in my job is relatively easy to understand and uses programming concepts
that were introduced in our CSCI 301 course. 

 

            Of course at this point in my interview, I haven’t done a
whole lot, for the most part I am still learning about the many different
aspects of service buses and service orientated architecture. One thing that I
have been doing during my learning period at my internship (Actually an internship
really is just one big learning period) is how different concepts like
templates and inheritance are used in real world programs. Learning about these
concepts in the classroom and then doing a lab or homework assignment on them
is one thing but knowing when to use them, when not to use them, and how they
can be helpful in programs that span hundreds of files and tens of thousands of
lines of code is another thing.  

 

            Now I just getting started learning how to code for WCF
web services so that we [IWCO Direct] can implement new web services and those
services will be able to communicate with our service bus (which is able to
communicate with a client). Learning about these technologies that have not
been introduced to me in the classroom is a great opportunity that I will take
advantage of. In the coming I will probably continue to work with programing
and setting up WCF web services and so you can expect to hear more about that
in the future logs. 

